# Covid_India
Logistic curve has been used to model the spread of COVID-19. A Prophet logistic curve is a Sigmoidal-S-shaped curve used to model functions which can be divided into three phases viz. (i) first phase: increases gradually during the start period, (ii) second phase: grows more quickly in the intermediate period and (ii) third phase: gradually at the end period, reaching a saturation level (referred to as carrying capacity. The Sigmoidal curve of this type is often used to find   biological growth patterns which exhibit exponential growth period to start with and subsequently reaches a maximum level. The pattern followed by COVID-19 is similar to this curve as large number of people get infection in early stages and further growth subsequently slows down due to implementation of various preventive measures.

Prophet model gives very good results when data shows either non-linear trends or non-linear growth patterns. Fundamentally, Prophet uses an additive regression concept, which can simply be modelled as a piecewise linear or as a logistic growth curve.  We tried using both these options and found that the logistic curve trend gives much better estimations to model the spread of COVID-19.  Even intuitively, modelling the COVID-19 spread through logistic method is more realistic.  The motivation of this analysis is to identify if the COVID-19 in India is still growing exponentially or the growth had started following a flat curve. It is necessary to fit India’s data to the logistic model because if any country is in the initial part of the curve, it indicates that the COVID-19 is still growing at a fast rate whereas if it is in the second part of the curve, it implies that growth is towards its saturation point.  To ascertain the same, growth of the COVID-19 from the available data is modelled with logistic function and forecast of the growth over the next few days is done with Prophet. 
